So now that we're able to retrieve
a document, HTML, text document, whatever,
from a web server,
now we're going to actually start sort
of sense making of the web document.
So, here's our code, right?
This is an example of reading a web page.
We import the urllib library.
We open the URL.
We read through it like a file, and
print out,
stripping new lines at the end, right?
And out comes the less thans and
the greater thans, that's the web page.
And of course what the browser does,
is it looks at the h1 and
makes the font differently and
makes it pretty on the page.
And so there's a rendering,
what's called rendering,
where it takes in takes that HTML,
that's in the actual return document, and
makes it look pretty on the page.
And that itself is a whole class
of how to make pretty web pages.
And that's not what we're
going to talk about here.
But basically,
when you return this information.
If you return this information,
inside this text, and
this is just string information at
this point in your application.
You can look for like an anchor tag,
and the end of an anchor tag,
and then the href attribute, and
find in these double quotes, and
you can find another page.
And so you can parse using regular
expressions, or find, or who knows what.
You can parse out these things.
And then you can,
this is exactly the string that
you would put into that,
right, to open the URL.
And then, if we made a loop around
this that was a bigger loop that would
read this data, extract this string, and
do another open.
And then read that and extract that
string and do another open, and so
on, and so on, and so on.
And that is how we cruise through the web.
We put a loop around this, where we pull
the URLs out, and then we read them, and
then we pull URL out.
And eventually you will find your way
to pretty much everything on the Web.
By starting at one page,
pulling all the links of that page, and
then hitting all those links,
on and on, and on, and on.
Your computer will probably run out of
memory before you read the whole Web.
But that's sort of the beginning
of a Google crawler.
And so now we're talking about sort of
how we're going to take a look at this Web
with scraping.
So web scraping is the term, or
web crawling, is the term that we use for
writing applications that pretend to be
web browsers and retrieve these web pages
and then look for the links in
those web pages and then continue.
And it's a science all itself.
And it's a way you can sort
of crawl the whole Web or
make a copy of the Web or
just a piece of the Web.
Now, what we're really doing is we're
taking that request-response cycle that I
talked about before where you
click on something in the browser.
Your browser sends a GET request,
the server responds with some HTML and
then formats it up and
makes it look pretty on the page.
You click again, round,
and around, and around.
And instead what we're doing is we're just
kind of doing the same thing from Python.
Doing the same thing, and
we're not clicking, we're sort of parsing.
You parse all this stuff and
then go to a different URL,
round, and around, and around.
And the servers can try to do things like
put up captchas and other things to detect
the difference between a human using
a web browser and a Python application.
But ultimately the more sophisticated
they become to try to do
things to fake us out or
detect and not allow this,
then these applications
just get a little smarter.
Now what we're going to do in this class is
we're only going to look at web pages and
web sites that don't mind this and
some explicitly don't care, and
some care a lot.
So you got to be a little
careful when you do this and
with great power comes
great responsibility, okay?
Now why might you want to do this?
Well, sometimes you have a system
that you don't have an API. It has has
no export capability.
So you write all the Python programs.
Say okay, I'll go grab all your pages and
pull all my stuff back out.
Sometimes you might build some,
a bit of code that checks for something.
Like, looks for
new apartments on Craigslist.
You could go read Craigslist web site.
Or you could make a spider to
do your own search engine.
Sometimes people use it
to pull social data.
So you'll see a lot of applications
that are like Twitter applications.
You give them permission to
look at your Twitter data, and
off they go looking at your Twitter data.
And so, it's a way to pull
data out when there is no
API application programing
interface to get that.
You got to be careful, because if everyone,
everyone taking this class,
immediately started scraping one web page,
or one web site,
they might get a little grumpy
because we could sort of crush them.
They would think this would be like
a denial of service, because so
many people are pulling web pages by
writing Python programs. It'll be bad.
Now Facebook has some rules about this.
You can't scrape Facebook.
Now the interesting thing about Facebook
is that, and this is a thing I grabbed.
The interesting thing about Facebook,
if you're not logged into to Facebook
you really can't see anything.
There's no public data on Facebook.
At least with Twitter there's
public data that you can see.
But at Facebook,
you have to be logged in to see anything.
So you can actually write a scraper for
Facebook, but you have to log
in as yourself as the first thing your
scraper does, and then they know it's you.
And so they're like,
oh all that logic that they put in
to determine the difference between
when a real web browser's working and
a piece of Python's working.
They do that so
they catch you doing something that
you said you weren't going to do.
So you accepted when
you went into Facebook,
you accepted that you're
not going to do it.
So don't do it on Facebook,
as long as it means that like
if you do it on Facebook then
they will blast your account and
they'll try to make sure you
never get to use Facebook again.
So you can sort of Google things like
Google Facebook scraping block.
And there's all these people like,
I'm sorry.
Please forgive me.
Well, just don't do it.
And you can't scrape
Google search engines.
Because they get mad about that too.
So you can't write your own search.
You could technically
write a search engine.
that took a search term and wrote
a Python program to submit the search
term to Google, and then parsed the
results that came back from Google, and
you could have a really awesome
search engine called Bobble, right?
But you'd be violating
the terms of service.
And Google copyrights their
search results, I believe, and so
if they caught you doing that
they'd be super grumpy.
So, as I'm showing you all this,
be careful.
Don't be mischievous.
Okay, so I'm going to stop and talk about
how to parse this with a library called
Beautiful Soup in a separate section.